Rider Plastics Inc.
Your Trusted Source for Injection Molding Since 1948

Design
Rider Plastics will meet with you to discuss your product. At this point, Rider Plastics will make a prototype to give you an idea of what your product will look like. Once the prototype is finalized, Rider Plastics will design the product using AutoCAD software.

Materials
In Step Two, Rider Plastics will choose the right material for the mold. The material will depend on the size of the product and how many parts you will need. Common materials include steel and aluminum.

Cutting
Once the material has been chosen, the design is put into the cutting machine where the mold is cut to resemble the design.

Polishing
Once the mold is cut, it needs to be polished.

Complete Mold
Rider Plastics takes all the pieces of the mold, puts them together and adds water lines. Water lines are added to cool the mold while in use.

Testing the Mold
Once the plastic has been put into the hopper, the mold is inserted into the machine. A few parts are made to test the mold and the entire installation. If everything is okay, the machine is ready to make the parts.

Production
Production times can vary depending on the size of the part and the size of the order.

Final Part
Once the parts are complete they are then inspected, packaged and shipped.

We have been bringing visions to realities for more then 70 years.
Right after WWII Rowland Rider had heard about a new thing called “plastic.” Rowland knew a guy who wanted to make tile for bathrooms out of this new material. Rowland and Romania Rider and their sons Max and Burt Rider all mortgaged their homes and bought a small injection molding machine. The Rider Engineering and Plastic Company occupied a building was on West Temple and 21st South in Salt Lake City. Soon enough, JB Tile had installed several of these new tiles into homes in the Rose Park, Glendale and Sugar House areas. Increasing numbers of people began to discover plastic and its wide use soon put Rider Engineering and Plastic Company into full swing. With a bigger customer base, Rider Engineering and Plastics expanded to its current location in 1966 and changed the name to Rider Plastics Incorporated. The company is currently run by Max Riders son, Kevin Rider, who started working at the company in 1964.

Commitment to Excellence
Our commitment to maintaining strict quality control over each phase of your project, may mean lead time is extended. In the long-run, this could save you hundreds of hours in frustration and thousands of dollars in costs of poor quality products. Rider Plastics uses the latest versions of Solid Works and SURFCAM to design and digitally machine your mold. Rider Plastics is a member of the Better Business Bureau.

Questions or comments?
Phone: 801-487-2214